React:
used to develop SPAs.
Allows dev to write less code to create func
used in conjunction with other js libraries.
Allows you to define components that can be combined to build a webapp. Component is a small piece of ui.
Allows isolated testing and reuse across multiple sections of the application.
Many open source libraries provide pre made somponents for open source projects.

React build its own virtual dom. It is a rep of browser dom and is used when browser dom needs to be updated.
React checks if the html elements in vDom match the one in bDOM. If chang is required dom is updated.
React builds a representation of the browser Document Object Model or DOM in memory called the virtual DOM. 
As components are updated, React checks to see if the component’s HTML code in the virtual DOM matches the 
browser DOM. If a change is required, the browser DOM is updated. If nothing has changed, then no update is 
performed.

As you know, this is called the reconciliation process and can be broken down into the following steps:
Step 1: The virtual DOM is updated.
Step 2: The virtual DOM is compared to the previous version of the virtual DOM and checks which elements have 
changed.
Step 3: The changed elements are updated in the browser DOM.
Step 4: The displayed webpage updates to match the browser DOM.

As updating the browser DOM can be a slow operation, this process helps to reduce the number of updates to the 
browser DOM by only updating when it is necessary.
But even with this process, if a lot of elements are updated by an event, pushing the update to the browser 
DOM can still be expensive and cause slow performance in the web application.
The React team invested many years of research into solving this problem. The outcome of that research is what’s 
known as the React Fiber Architecture.
The Fiber Architecture allows React to incrementally render the web page. What this means is that instead of 
immediately updating the browser DOM with all virtual DOM changes, React can spread the update over time. But 
what does "over time" mean?
Imagine a really long web page in the web browser. If the user scrolls to the bottom, the top of the web page 
is no longer visible. The user then clicks a button on the bottom of the web page that updates some text on the 
top of the web page.
But the top of the page isn’t visible. Therefore, why update it immediately?
Perhaps there is text currently displayed on the bottom of the page that also updates when the button is clicked. 
Wouldn’t that be a higher priority to update than the non-visible text?
This is the principle of the React Fiber Architecture. React can optimize when and where updates occur to the 
browser DOM to significantly improve application performance and responsiveness to user input. Think of it as a 
priority system. The highest priority changes, the elements visible to the user, are updated first. While lower 
priority changes, the elements not currently displayed, are updated later.
While you’re unlikely to interact with the virtual DOM and Fiber Architecture yourself, it’s good to know what’s 
going on if issues occur during the development of your web application.
There are many tools available to help you investigate how React is processing your webpage. The official 
React Developer Tools web browser plugin developed by Meta will be one of the key tools in your developer 
toolbox. So, if you do have to look deeper into the code, you’ll have the right toolbox available to help you. 

Every React application contains atleast one component the root or app component. Components are added to this
to bi=uild a tree structure of components that make up the application.

React is a library and not a framework. This means you'll often use other JavaScript libraries with it to build 
your application. 

Lodash:As a developer, there's a lot of logic you'll commonly write across applications. For example, you 
might need to sort a list of items or round a number such as 3.14 to 3. Lodash provides common logic such as 
these as a utility library to save you time as a developer.

Luxon:Luxon helps you work with dates and times by providing functions to manipulate and display them. For 
example, think of how dates are formatted in different countries. In the United States the format is Month Day 
Year but in Europe it is Day Month Year. This is one area where Luxon can help you display the date in the user's 
local format.

Redux:When building a web application, you'll need to keep track of its state. Think of when you shop online. 
The web application tracks items currently in your shopping cart. When you remove an item from the cart, the 
application needs to update what displays on the screen. This is where Redux comes in. It helps you manage 
your application state and even has advanced features such as undo and redo.

Axios:As a developer you'll be communicating with APIs over HTTP frequently. The Axios library helps to simplify 
sending HTTP requests and processing the response. It also provides advanced features allowing you to cancel 
requests and to change data received from the web server before your application uses the data.

Jest:It is good practice to write automated tests for your code as a professional developer. The jest library 
helps you to do this and works with many libraries and frameworks. It also provides reporting utilities such as 
providing information on how much of your code is tested by your automated tests.


